#summary Bitcoin: Experts clash over the crypto-currency

=비트코인 : 암호화된 통화에 대한 전문가들의 상충된 의견=

By Leo Kelion

You can use it to buy beer in Berlin, order pizza in Amsterdam, hire a taxi in Edinburgh, schedule a dental check-up in Ljubljana, do a degree in Nicosia, purchase Alpaca socks from Massachusetts - or even blast off into space with Virgin Galactic.

비트코인으로 독일에서는 맥주를 사고, 암스테르담에서는 피자를 주문하며, 에딘버러에서는 택시를 타고, 류블리야나에서는 치과예약을 하고, 니코시아에서는 학위를 따고, 메사추세츠에서는 알파카 양말을 사고, 심지어 버진 갈락틱을 통해 우주여행을 할 수도 있다.  

Every day, it seems, another service joins the Bitcoin revolution, accepting payment in the so-called virtual currency.

매일매일 새로운 서비스들이 비트코인을 결제수단으로 받아들이며 혁명에 참여하고 있다. 

As its popularity has soared, so has its price. On Wednesday it breached the $1,000 (£614) mark on Japan's MtGox exchange for the first time. That's nearly five times the price it was at earlier in the month.

인기가 올라가면서 가치도 치솟고 있다. 지난 수요일에 일본 MtGox 환전소에서 1비트코인당 1,000달러 (614파운드)까지 올라갔다. 이것은 이번달초 가격보다 거의 다섯배나 오른 것이다. 

Several reasons have been given for the surge:

이런 상승에는 몇가지 원인은 

Speculators piling in after a Senate hearing into the innovation

투자가들이 상원의원이 공청회를 개최한 이후 돈을 쏟아붓고 있다. (미국쪽 얘기인가요?)

Chinese citizens turning to it as a way to shift their wealth out of the country

중국인들이 비트코인을 자신의 부를 국외로 빼내는데 사용하고 있다. 

Members of the public buying at least a fraction of a bitcoin (the smallest unit is 0.00000001) after hearing reports of others who did the same and then saw the value of their investment swell

대중들이 약간의 비트코인을 사고는 재미를 봤다는 이야기를 접하고 적어도 약간의 비트코인을 구매하기 시작했다. 

If all of that makes it sounds like more of an asset than a real currency, then that's probably because it's a fair description.

위 이야기들에서 비트코인이 실질 통화가 아닌 자산인 것처럼 들린다면, 아마도 비트코인 자체가 자산의 특징을 가지고 있기 때문일 것이다.

The BBC's Rory Cellan-Jones explains how Bitcoin works
Unlike "real-world" currencies, there is no central bank backing Bitcoin and anyone with a powerful enough computer can create one as part of a technique called "mining", which is used to process transactions.

BBC의 로리 쎌란존스는 비트코인이 어떻게 기능하는지 설명한다.
실제 통화들과 달리, 비트코인은 신뢰도를 보증하는 중앙은행이 없다. 충분히 강력한 컴퓨팅 환경만 있다면 누구든 "채굴"이라 불리는 테크닉을 이용해서 비트코인을 찍어낼 수 있다. "채굴"방식은 비트코인의 트랜잭션을 처리하는데 사용된다. 


Understanding exactly how the Bitcoin system works is only marginally easier than tracking down its mysterious creator - Satoshi Nakamoto, the pseudonym used by the author or authors of the 2008 research paper that sparked its existence.

비트코인 시스템이 기능하는 방법을 정확하게 이해하는 것은 미스테리한 사토시 나카모토라는 가명으로 알려진, 비트코인을 만든 개인 혹은 집단을 추적하는 것에 비하면 아주 약간 쉽다. (둘다 어렵다는 얘기죵) 이 인물은 2008년에 한 논문(9장짜리)을 했는데 이것이 비트코인을 촉발시켰다.

And, in truth, interest in Bitcoin arguably outweighs its role in the wider economy, with the possible exception of the way it has facilitated illegal trades on underground sites such as the Silk Road.

사실, 비트코인에 대한 관심은 경제 전반에 미칠 영향력 때문이라기보다는 블랙마켓과 같은 지하경제에서 불법 거래 활성화할 수 있다는데 있다.

But what makes it important is what it tells us about the role virtual currencies might play in the years to come.

하지만 중요한 것은 비트코인이 앞으로 어떤 역할을 할 것이냐는데 있다. 

On this point, however, there is a divide between those who think it is a fantasy destined for failure, and those who think it will underpin the future of finance.

이 지점에서 실패할 환타지라는 의견과 금융거래의 미래라는 의견이 상충된다.

The BBC invited a Bitcoin advocate and a sceptic to explain their views:

BBC에서는 비트코인 대변인과 비트코인에 회의적인 인물을 초대하여 의견을 들어본다.


Mike Hearn, Bitcoin Core developer
마이크 헤런, 비트코인 주 개발자

Why does Bitcoin have value?
왜 비트코인은 가치가 있나?

Over the past few years, I must have been asked this hundreds of times.
지난 몇년간, 그 질문을 수백번 들었음에 틀림없다.

I first used Bitcoin in April 2009, just a few months after it was first released to the world. Back then, it had no value at all - there were no users and no trade, no exchanges and thus no exchange rate.

내가 처음 비트코인을 사용한 것은 비트코인이 출시된지 몇개월 뒤인 2009년 4월이었다. 그때는 비트코인은 아무런 가치가 없었다. 사용하는 사람도 없었고, 거래도 없었다. 환전도, 환율도 없었다. (지금은 다 있단거죠)

Now Bitcoin is reaching new heights thanks to a combination of speculation on future value and genuine, undeniable usefulness.

지금 비트코인은 새로운 고지에 다가가고 있습니다. 이것은 미래가치로의 투자와 순수하게 거부할 수 없는 유용성의 결합덕분입니다.

Think about it: Why can it take days or weeks for banks to send money around the world, when an email travels in seconds?

생각해보세요. 왜 은행들은 세계 여기저기로 돈을 송금하는데 며칠 혹은 몇주가 걸릴까요? 이메일은 몇초만에 전송되는데요.

Does the money travel by steamboat?

돈이 증기선을 타고 가나보죠?

Are they loading gold bars onto the side of a camel and sending it over the mountains of Mongolia?

낙타 등에 금괴를 싣고 몽고의 산들을 넘나요?

Of course not.

물론 아닙니다.

The real answer is depressing - banking is a stagnant market running on long-obsolete infrastructure, which improves only when forced to by government.

진실은 좀 우울합니다. 뱅킹은 오래전에 구식이되버린 하부구조에서 돌아가는 정체된 시장입니다. 정부가 강요할때만 개선되죠.

Same day payments happened only after banks were dragged into the 19th century by the Office of Fair Trading. When Metro Bank opened in 2010, it received the first new UK banking licence issued in 150 years.

당일 결제는 the Office of Fair Trading (UK정부조직이네요)가 은행들을 19세기로 끌고 들어갔을때 가능해졌구요. 2010년에 메트로 은행이 문을 열었을때 UK은행라이센스를 발급받았는데 그게 150년만에 새로 발급되는거였어요.

Bitcoin has created a firestorm of excitement throughout the world because it's a new financial system, designed from scratch by the people, for the people.

비트코인은 전세계적으로 신바람을 만들고 있습니다. 왜냐하면 그것이 대중에 의한, 대중을 위한 새로운 금융시스템이기 때문입니다.

It's not only fast, cheap and easy. In Bitcoin, every participant has equal power.

그것은 단지 빠르기만한게 아니에요. 싸기도 하고, 쉽습니다. 비트코인을 사용하면 모두가 동등한 힘을 가집니다.

There are no bankers, because there are no banks.

은행가도 없습니다. 은행이 없으니까요.

There are no banks because there is no need for them: People can control their own money.

은행이 없습니다. 왜냐하면 필요가 없으니까요. 사람들은 자신들의 돈을 통제할 수 있습니다. 

The rules of the system are enforced on everyone by each other. Not even the current software developers can tamper with it against the wishes of the users.

비트코인 시스템의 룰은 모두에게 강제됩니다. 소프트웨어 개발자들이라고 하더라도 사용자의 의지를 거슬러 조작을 가할 수 없습니다.

With better technology comes new features.

새로운 기술과 함께 새로운 기능들이 생겨납니다.

The web is powered by advertising because credit cards are too inefficient to pay for most content.

웹은 광고의 힘을 얻었습니다. 왜냐하면 신용카드가 컨텐트를 사고파는데 너무 비효율적이었기 때문입니다. 

Bitcoin enables micropayments - instead of ads, tiny fractions of a penny could flow from your browser directly to sites you visit, with no middleman fees making the scheme impractical.

비트코인은 소액결제를 가능하도록 했습니다. 광고 대신에 1페니보다 더 작은 금액도 사용자의 브라우저에서 사용처로 지불할 수 있습니다. 비효율적으로 수수료를 떼는 사람들 없이 말입니다.

Crowdfunding doesn't need to be restricted to sites like Kickstarter, which have complex policies and fees - people can do it themselves.

크라우드펀딩은 더이상 복잡한 정책들과 요금이 있는 킥스타터같은 싸이트에 국한될 필요가 없습니다. 그냥 직접 하면 됩니다. 

Even something as trivial as a child running a lemonade stand can now be made digital, because anyone with a smartphone can accept Bitcoin: No complicated merchant bank accounts are needed.

레모네이드 가판대를 운영하는 아이까지도 스마트폰을 통해 비트코인을 지불수단으로 받을 수 있습니다. 복잡한 기업계좌 같은건 필요없습니다. 

Bitcoin is barely five years old.

비트코인은 겨우 5살입니다.

It has its problems - volatility, geekiness and an appeal to criminals come to mind. With your help the project can overcome these issues and change the world. Trade on!

문제가 있습니다. 불안정하고, 오덕스럽고, 범죄자들에게 어필합니다. 사람들의 도움이 있어야 이 프로젝트는 이러한 문제점들을 극복하고 세상을 바꿀 수 있습니다. 비트코인을 사용해주세요.


Dr Stephen Kinsella, University of Limerick

스테판 킨셀라 박사, 라임릭 대학

Bitcoin is a beautiful example of what the psychoanalyst David Tuckett calls a "fantastic object" - unreal but immensely attractive.

비트코인은 심리분석학자인 데이비드 터켓이 얘기한 "환상적인 물건"에 딱 들어맞는 예입니다. 비현실적이지만 어마어마하게 매력적입니다. 

The Bitcoin experience accesses notions of stateless money, peer-to-peer exchange, and of course, no regulation or financial intermediation.

비트코인의 사용은 상태가 없는 돈, 상호교환, 그리고 물론 금융당국의 규제없음의 개념으로 생각해볼 수 있습니다. (이사람 말 이상하게 하네... 박사라 그런가)

The origin story is clever and cute, and just hard enough to understand to induce a belief in the stability of the supply of the bitcoins, leading to a rush for them now, as opposed to later.

아이디어는 매우 똑똑하고 예쁘고, 딱 비트코인이 안정적이라는 믿음을 가지고 달려들 정도까지만 어렵다. 나중엔 반대가 되겠지만 (as opposed to later 해석안됨;)
 
Bitcoin's value is dependent entirely on what you, the buyer, are willing to pay for it. If there were no users, there wouldn't be any value.

비트코인의 가치는 완전히 사용자가 그것에 돈을 지불할 의지가 있는가에 달려있다. 사용자가 없다면 아무런 가치가 없을 것이다. 

Because it has no use value, only exchange value, Bitcoin can have literally any price, and so the market for Bitcoin is permanently in a bubble as a result.

사용가치가 없고 교환가치만 있기 때문에, 비트코인은 말그대로 어떤 가격이라도 가질 수 있다. 그렇기 때문에 결과적으로 비트코인 마켓은 영구히 버블경제에 있을 수밖에 없다. (이건... 경제학을 쪼끔밖에 모르는 내가 들어도 이상한 말인데... 현재 통화가치가 실물가치를 떠난건 상식아닌가???)

This bubble will form and burst many times, making and losing fortunes in the process.

이 거품은 생성되고 꺼지기를 여러반 반복하게 될 것이다. 그 과정에서 많은 돈이 생기고 없어질 것이고.

I'm Irish. I know exactly what crazy bubbles look like.

나는 아일랜드인이기 때문에 미친 거품경제가 어떤 것인지 매우 잘 안다.

At the psychological level of the investor, there's no difference between bitcoins, tulips, railways, or the stock market bubbles of the 1920s, 1990s, or the mid 2000s.

투자자의 심리적 상태에는 비트코인이든 튤립이건, 철도건 1920년, 90년 그리고 2000의 주식시장 거품이건 다를바 없다. 

In this case a lot of people are deciding a string of electrons are worth something, as opposed to nothing, and they want to sell it to the next guy as soon as possible.

비트코인의 경우엔 많은 사람들이 일렬의 전자들이 뭔가 가치가 있다고 결정하고 있다. 그들은 다음 사람에게 가능한 빨리 팔아버리려고 할 것이다. 

As long as you pass your Bitcoins on to the next guy while extracting a profit, you'll be happy.

당신의 비트코인을 다음 사람에게 넘기고 이윤을 얻는 동안 당신을 행복할 것이다. 

There is always a greater fool. Right up until the moment there isn't one.

항상 더 바보는 존재한다. 더이상 아무것도 남지않을때까지 줄을 선다. 

Economically, Bitcoin is nothing special.

경제적으로 비트코인은 특별할게 없다.

It's a speculative asset people are buying primarily to flip onto someone else.

그것은 기본적으로 다른 사람에게 더 비싸게 넘기기 위해 구매하는 투기자산이다. 

The "money 2.0" stuff is just marketing, and has been tried before, in the US in the 1850s during the free banking period, for example.

머니2.0과 같은 것은 그저 마케팅 용어일 뿐이다. 일례로, 미국에선 1850년대 자유뱅킹 기간(?) 동안 시도되었었다. 

As I've said elsewhere, this time really isn't different, but you can tweet about it.

나는 다른 곳에서도 얘기하는 것처럼 이번에도 다를게 없다. 하지만 당신은 그것에 대해 트윗할 수 있다. (먼소리여)

The fact Bitcoin isn't regulated is a big plus for some.

비트코인이 규제되지 않는다는 점은 몇몇에게는 큰 매력점이다. 

As one Bitcoin promoter boasted to me recently- and he did this himself - you can move $1m worth of Bitcoin across a border on a Zip Drive and not be detected.

한 비트코인 프로모터가 최근 나에게 자랑을 했는데 - 자기가 직접 했다고 - 당신은 백만불 가치의 비트코인을 집드라이브에 담아서 걸리지않고 국경을 넘을 수 있다. 

The authorities won't allow this to last for long. Bitcoin's biggest boosters are also holding large amounts of the stuff, so beware, buyers.

당국은 이를 오래두고보지 않을 것이다. 비트코인의 가장 큰 지지자들은 비트코인을 많이 보유하고 있으니, 주의하시라 사용자들.

My colleague Karl Whelan has suggested Bitcoin may simply be competed out of existence by other services like LiteCoin, TerraCoin, and AllahCoin, or regulated by national and international governments if it becomes associated with largely criminal activity.

Readers holding Bitcoin will be shaking their heads reading my piece - the value has exploded by thousands of percent in a single year!

Australian pub selling beer for bitcoins
Pubs around the world have started accepting bitcoins as payment
To which I respond: Exactly.

Get into Bitcoin or another digital currency if you want.

I hope it makes you rich. But don't kid yourself this is anything more than speculation for a quick buck.

The messianic stuff will go out the window once it collapses. There are lots of things in the real economy to invest in too.

The big advantage of Bitcoin as "stateless money" is that when it collapses, the government won't have to bail it out.

----

원문 : http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-25130261