#summary Android vs. iOS: 개발자가 알아야할 사용그룹의 특징

=Android vs. iOS: User Differences Every Developer Should Know=
=안드로이드 대 iOS: 개발자가 알아야할 사용그룹의 특징=

By: Benjamin Travis
벤자민 트레비스

With Android and iPhone now combining for nearly 90 percent of the U.S. smartphone market, many app developers are concentrating their efforts on serving the majority of smartphone users through these two platforms. But there is an inherent tension when resources are limited and developers must choose one over the other, or decide which platform to develop for first. As a result, every app developer should be armed with some basic facts around the differences between Android and iPhone users when making these decisions.

안드로이드와 아이폰이 합쳐서 90퍼센트에 가까운 미국 스마트폰 시장을 장악하고 있는 이 때, 많은 앱개발자들이 양대 플랫폼을 통해 가능한한 많은 사용자에게 다가가는데 노력을 기울이고 있지만 리소스는 한정되어있으므로 어느 한가지 플랫폼을 선택하여 집중하거나 아니면 그 한가지 플랫폼을 먼저 개발해야하는 경우가 생긴다. 

According to comScore MobiLens data from December 2012, Android currently owns the larger market share at 53 percent, while iPhone holds a strong #2 position at 36 percent. However, market share alone is not sufficient for driving development decisions because iPhone users have different characteristics that often make them attractive from a development standpoint. Here are some key differences in user dynamics between Android and iPhone users that every developer should know.

컴스코어에 따르면 작년말 안드로이드는 53%의 시장점유로 2위인 아이폰의 36%보다 큰시장을 가지고 있었다. 하지만 시장점유율 하나만으로는 어느 플랫폼으로 개발할지 선택할 수 없다. 왜냐하면 아이폰 사용자들은 개발자 입장에서 매력적인 점들을 지니고 있기때문이다. 하여 모든 개발자들이 알아야할 양플랫폼 사용자들간의 차이점을 여기 기술한다.

iPhone Users are Slightly Younger and More Affluent
아이폰사용자들이 약간 더 젊고 더 돈이 많다

iOS is popular among a slightly younger demographic than Android users, with 18-24 year olds representing 19 percent of all iPhone owners compared to 16 percent of Android owners. That said, Android users on the whole skew younger than the total U.S. mobile market, indicating that they still have a very attractive profile on this dimension.

iOS는 좀 더 젊은 층에 인기가 있다. 만18~24세 사용자들이 아이폰 사용자 중 19%를 차지하는데 비교해서 안드로이드 사용자 중 16%를 차지하고 있다. 또한 전체 안드로이드 사용자들의 평균 연령이 미국 모바일폰 사용자 전체 평균(?)에 비해 젊다는 것은 흥미로운 일이다. (이부분 번역이 좀 이상하여요. 헬프!)

Another important demographic difference is average household income, with 41 percent of iPhone owners falling in the $100,000+ income segment vs. 24 percent of Android owners. With iPhones selling at a higher average price point than most Android phones, this difference should not be a complete surprise. Still, it may be an important differentiator for marketers.

또하나의 흥미로운 인구통계학적 차이점은 평균 수입이다. 41%의 아이폰 사용자들은 100,000 달러 이상 수입군에 드는 반면, 안드로이드는 24%의 사용자만 이 수입군에 해당된다. 아이폰이 대부분의 안드로이드폰들보다 비싸다는 것을 감안해볼때 이 차이점은 그다지 놀랍지 않다. 하지만, 여전히 마케터들에게는 중요한 구분자가 될 수 있다. 

Android Users Have Broader Content Category Reach, Despite iOS Users’ Higher Propensity
안드로이드 사용자는 폭넓은 컨텐츠 분야를 사용하는 반면, iOS 사용자는 취향에 따른 집중을 보인다.

Not only do Android and iOS users look different, but they also engage differently with mobile content. iPhone owners  are sometimes  described as “power users” on their phones and are relatively more likely to engage in all major content categories than Android owners: 10 percent more likely to use social media on a daily basis, 7 percent more likely to access news, and 15 percent more likely to visit online retail sites. While iPhone owners engage with more content on average, the Android platform has a greater number of media users in each category. This of course poses an interesting dilemma for developers who must consider whether audience size or engagement is the more important determinant of success for their apps. Do they need to have a higher number of users, or do they want the type of users who engage more frequently? A lot will depend on how they intend to monetize the apps.

iPhone Users More Likely to Engage in M-Commerce
One of the more important mobile trends to develop over the past year is the emergence of m-commerce, where smartphone owners actually make purchases on their phones. Once again, iPhone users show a greater propensity to engage in this behavior with 23 percent having done so vs. 17 percent of Android owners. iPhone owners are also more likely to make purchases on their phones on a regular basis. These are important considerations for both retail app developers and those seeking to monetize via paid apps or in-app purchase.

iPhone Satisfaction Corresponds with High Device Loyalty
Device satisfaction and brand loyalty are differentiating factors that marketers, strategists, and developers also should consider since they, in part, determine long term market share. iPhone owners tend to think very highly of their devices, and as a result they are likely to remain iPhone users over time. Nearly two-thirds (62 percent) of iPhone owners are highly satisfied with their device, and more than 80 percent of them have previously owned an iPhone. Android owners maintain a fairly high percentage of highly satisfied users at 48 percent, but clearly not at the same level of Apple. Since the majority of Android phones’ hardware is not Google-branded, Apple’s tightly linked hardware and software may offer a certain branding advantage that engenders higher loyalty. Of course, Apple also has a history of excellent marketing campaigns that have cemented the brand’s iconic status.

Developers Should Think About What’s Most Important Before Developing an App
Android and iPhone offer the two leading platforms today, and each one possesses its own unique characteristics and advantages. Android’s lead in market share often means the potential for app developers to reach a larger audience, but iPhone makes up for this by boasting an attractive audience to marketers that tends to reflect more highly engaged mobile media users with higher income. Their strong platform loyalty also bodes well for their ability to retain and expand market share over the long term. Understanding and quantifying the differences between the users of each device can help developers make smarter decisions about which audiences and platforms to focus on in order to attract users, drive engagement, generate sales, and ultimately achieve their strategic business objectives.

----
http://www.comscore.com/Insights/Blog/Android_vs_iOS_User_Differences_Every_Developer_Should_Know#imageview/0/